.TH AN_ACCEPT 3 2005-01-06 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
an_accept - accept a connection on a proxy-capable socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int an_accept(ANCONN " s ", struct sockaddr *" addr ", int " socklen ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR an_accept (3)
function is used to accept an incoming connection on a socket that was created
earlier and switched into listen mode using the
.BR an_listen (3)
call.  For proxy-based connections, only one incoming connection is allowed on
any listening socket.  Accepting a connection will use the primary socket for
communication and will not create any other socket.
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3),
bound with the
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3)
or
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3)
calls, and placed into listen mode with
.BR an_listen (3).
.PP
Similar to
.BR accept ,
addr is filled in with the address of the connecting entity and socklen
contains the length of addr.  If addr is NULL then this data is not returned,
but may be retrieved later with a call to
.BR an_getpeername (3).
.SH NOTES
.PP
Although there is planned support for non-blocking sockets in a future release,
this call should be considered a blocking call.  A non-blocking socket will be
silently (and temporarily) changed to a blocking one to process the
connection.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
This call returns
.B AN_ERROR_SUCCESS
to indicate successful completion.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_INVALIDARG
The socket handle is invalid.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NETWORK
Could not read information from the network; a network error occurred.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOMEM
There was not enough space to store the resulting socket information into
the
.I addr
buffer.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOTSUPPORTED
This call cannot be made on the type of socket, or cannot return socket
information for this type of connection.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_ORDER
This call must be called after a prior successful call to
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3)
or
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3).
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_PROXY
The proxy failed to successfully process the incoming connection.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR accept ,
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3),
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3),
.BR an_getpeername (3),
.BR an_listen (3),
.BR an_new_connection (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
