.TH AN_BIND_TOSOCKADDR 3 2005-01-02 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
an_bind_tosockaddr - bind to an incoming address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int an_bind_tosockaddr(ANCONN " s ", struct sockaddr  *" address ", int " length ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3)
function is used allow incoming connections from the specified address.
In order to accept any incoming connection,
.BR an_listen (3)
must be called on the bound socket.  For proxy-based connections, only one
incoming connection is allowed on any listening socket.  Accepting a
connection will use the primary socket for communication and will not create
any other socket.
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3)
call.
.PP
.I address
is a filled out sockaddr structure, containing an address family, address,
and port that an incoming connection should be allowed from.
.PP
.I length
is the length of the sockaddr structure, as determined by sizeof.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Although there is planned support for non-blocking sockets in a future release,
this call should be considered a blocking call.  A non-blocking socket will be
silently (and temporarily) changed to a blocking one to process the
connection.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
This call returns
.B AN_ERROR_SUCCESS
to indicate successful completion.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_AUTH
The proxy would not accept the authentication credentials that were
supplied to it.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_INVALIDARG
The socket handle is invalid, or the address structure doesn't point to
anything.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NAMERESOLVE
Could not resolve the proxy hostname into an address.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOTSUPPORTED
This call cannot be made on the type of socket, or cannot return socket
information for this type of connection.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_ORDER
This call must be called without having performed any operation on the socket
other than
.BR an_new_connection (3).
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NETWORK
Could not read information from the network; a network error occurred.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_PROXY
The proxy failed to successfully process the incoming connection.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR an_accept (3),
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3),
.BR an_new_connection (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
