.TH AN_CONNECT_TOHOSTNAME 3 2005-01-02 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
an_connect_tohostname - connect to an outgoing address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int an_connect_tohostname(ANCONN " s ", const char *" hostname ", unsigned short " port ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3)
function is used to connect to the specified hostname at the specified port.
This call should be used in preference to
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3)
because it allows name resolution to be deferred to the proxy where possible.
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3)
call.
.PP
.I hostname
is a hostname that a connection will be initiated to.
.PP
.I port
is the port that a connection will be initiated to.  This can be specified in
host byte-order.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Although there is planned support for non-blocking sockets in a future release,
this call should be considered a blocking call.  A non-blocking socket will be
silently (and temporarily) changed to a blocking one to process the
connection.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
This call returns
.B AN_ERROR_SUCCESS
to indicate successful completion.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_AUTH
The proxy would not accept the authentication credentials that were
supplied to it.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_INVALIDARG
The socket handle or hostname is invalid.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NAMERESOLVE
Could not resolve proxy hostname; for some types of proxy, the remote host
also needs to be locally resolved, which could also generate this error.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOMEM
Could not allocate memory to translate hostname into address where the client
will connect directly.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOTSUPPORTED
This call cannot be made on the type of socket, or cannot return socket
information for this type of connection.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_ORDER
This call must be called without having performed any operation on the socket
other than 
.BR an_new_connection (3).
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NETWORK
Could not read information from the network; a network error occurred.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_PROXY
The proxy failed to successfully process the connection.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR an_close (3),
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3)
.BR an_new_connection (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
