.TH AN_CONNECT_TOSOCKADDR 3 2005-01-02 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
an_connect_tosockaddr - connect to an outgoing address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int an_connect_tosockaddr(ANCONN " s ", struct sockaddr *" address ", int "length ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3)
function is used to connect to the specified address at the specified port.
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3)
should be used in preference to this function, because it allows name
resolution to be deferred to the proxy where possible.
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3)
call.
.PP
.I address
is a filled out sockaddr structure, containing an address family, address,
and port that a connection should be made to.  This can also be a typecast
sockaddr_in6 structure, if Antinat has been compiled with IPv6 support.
.PP
.I length
is the length of the sockaddr structure, as determined by sizeof.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Although there is planned support for non-blocking sockets in a future release,
this call should be considered a blocking call.  A non-blocking socket will be
silently (and temporarily) changed to a blocking one to process the
connection.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
This call returns
.B AN_ERROR_SUCCESS
to indicate successful completion.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_AUTH
The proxy would not accept the authentication credentials that were
supplied to it.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_INVALIDARG
The socket handle or sockaddr structure is invalid; or structures of this
length are not supported by the library.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NAMERESOLVE
Could not resolve proxy hostname.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOTSUPPORTED
This call cannot be made on the type of socket, such as the authentication
scheme required is not supported by this type of proxy, or the address type
is not supported by this type of proxy.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_ORDER
This call must be called without a currently open connection, binding,
listening, or accepting call.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NETWORK
Could not read information from the network; a network error occurred.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_PROXY
The proxy failed to successfully process the connection.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR an_close (3),
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3)
.BR an_new_connection (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
