.TH AN_FD_SET 3 2005-01-02 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
AN_FD_SET - place an Antinat connection handle into a socket set.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int AN_FD_SET(ANCONN " s ", struct fd_set * " fds ", int " top ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR AN_FD_SET (3)
function inserts an Antinat socket into a set of file descriptors.  This
set of file descriptors can be used with
.BR select .
Use the
.BR AN_FD_ISSET (3)
function to determine if a file descriptor is in the set, or
.BR AN_FD_CLR (3)
to remove the file descriptor from the set.
This function should be considered equivalent to the
.BR FD_SET (3)
macro in your sockets library, except that it is for use with
proxy-capable sockets, and supports an extension for determining the
highest numbered file descriptor.
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3).
.PP
.I fds
is an fd_set socket structure.  Consult your platform's documentation for
the
.BR select 
function for more information about this structure.  It will
contain a list of file descriptors suitable for use with the
.BR select 
call.
.PP
.I top
is the previous highest numbered file descriptor.  Select requires the highest
numbered file descriptor in a set.  The highest numbered file descriptor will
be returned, and this may be larger than the top value if required to
accommodate the freshly inserted file descriptor.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
The return value is the highest numbered file descriptor in the set.  This
value is required by
.BR select .
.SH ERRORS
.PP
There is no error return.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR select ,
.BR AN_FD_CLR (3),
.BR AN_FD_ISSET (3),
.BR an_new_connection (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
