.TH AN_GETSOCKNAME 3 2005-01-03 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
an_getsockname - fetch the public address the local client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int an_getsockname(ANCONN " s ", struct sockaddr *" address ", int "length ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR an_getsockname (3)
function is used retrieve the public address of the local client.  Be
careful when using this function; proxy-aware applications have an additional
set of considerations over BSD-socket applications.  Firstly, in order to
have an address, the socket must be connected to a remote host (via 
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3)
or
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3)
) or be bound to accept incoming connections with
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3)
or
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3).
Depending on the proxy protocol, a local address may not be available.
On the basis that wrong information is worse than none, in these cases the
function will fail.  A bound socket should have an available address on
SOCKS4 or SOCKS5; a connected socket may only have an available address
on SOCKS5 (or SOCKS4, if your server is Antinat.)  Given that you cannot
control the proxy where your application may run, do not make assumptions
about whether one will be available.
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3)
call, placed in the bound or connected state with one of
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3),
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3),
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3)
or
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3).
.PP
.I address
is a sockaddr structure, which will be filled with address family, address,
and port that the local server is using for the connection. This can also be a
typecast sockaddr_in6 structure, if Antinat has been compiled with IPv6 support.
.PP
.I length
is the length of the sockaddr structure, as determined by sizeof.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Do not call this function without firstly having a connected or bound
socket; and do not assume that an address will be available on different
types of proxy.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
This call returns
.B AN_ERROR_SUCCESS
to indicate successful completion.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_INVALIDARG
The socket handle or sockaddr structure is invalid; or structures of this
length are not supported by the library.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NETWORK
The information is not available with this network configuration.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOMEM
The socket information required more space than the length parameter
indicated the address parameter has.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOTSUPPORTED
This call cannot be made on the type of socket, such as the proxy type
does not support the retrieval of this type of information.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_ORDER
This call must be called after a connection or an bind operation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3),
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3),
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3),
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3),
.BR an_getpeername (3),
.BR an_new_connection (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
