.TH AN_GETPEERNAME 3 2005-01-02 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
an_getpeername - fetch the public address of the remote client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int an_getpeername(ANCONN " s ", struct sockaddr *" address ", int "length ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR an_getpeername (3)
function is used retrieve the public address of the remote client.  Be
careful when using this function; proxy-aware applications have an additional
set of considerations over BSD-socket applications.  Firstly, in order to
have a peer address, the socket must be connected to a remote host (via 
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3),
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3)
or
.BR an_accept (3).)
Secondly, when using
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3)
the public address may not be known to the client library.  On the basis
that wrong information is worse than none, in these cases the function will
fail.  Whether or not an address is available is dependent on the proxy
protocol; do not make assumptions about whether one will be available.
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3)
call, placed in the accepted or connected state with one of
.BR an_accept (3),
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3)
or
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3)
.PP
.I address
is a sockaddr structure, which will be filled with address family, address,
and port that the remote host is using for the connection. This can also be a
typecast sockaddr_in6 structure, if Antinat has been compiled with IPv6 support.
.PP
.I length
is the length of the sockaddr structure, as determined by sizeof.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Do not call this function without firstly having a connected or accepted
socket; and do not assume that an address will be available if the
connection was made with
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
This call returns
.B AN_ERROR_SUCCESS
to indicate successful completion.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_INVALIDARG
The socket handle or sockaddr structure is invalid; or structures of this
length are not supported by the library.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NETWORK
This information is not available with this network configuration.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOMEM
The socket information required more space than the length parameter
indicated the address parameter has.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOTSUPPORTED
This call cannot be made on the type of socket, such as the proxy type
does not support the retrieval of this type of information.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_ORDER
This call must be called after a connection or an accepted incoming connection.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR an_accept (3),
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3),
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3),
.BR an_getsockname (3),
.BR an_new_connection (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
