.TH AN_LISTEN 3 2005-01-03 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
an_listen - listen for incoming connections on a proxy-capable socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int an_listen(ANCONN " s ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR an_listen (3)
function is used to wait for an incoming connection on a socket that was
created earlier and switched into bound mode using the
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3)
or
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3)
calls.  For proxy-based connections, only one incoming connection is allowed on
any listening socket.  Accepting a connection will use the primary socket for
communication and will not create any other socket.
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3),
and bound with the
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3)
or
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3)
calls.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Although there is planned support for non-blocking sockets in a future release,
this call should be considered a blocking call.  A non-blocking socket will be
silently (and temporarily) changed to a blocking one to process the
connection.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
This call returns
.B AN_ERROR_SUCCESS
to indicate successful completion.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_INVALIDARG
The socket handle is invalid.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NETWORK
A network error occurred attempting to switch to listen mode.  See listen
for more information on what could cause this to happen.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOTSUPPORTED
This call cannot be made on the type of socket.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_ORDER
This call must be called after a prior successful call to
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3)
or
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR an_accept (3),
.BR an_bind_tohostname (3),
.BR an_bind_tosockaddr (3),
.BR an_new_connection (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
