.TH AN_SEND 3 2005-01-03 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
an_send - send incoming data to a proxy-capable socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int an_send(ANCONN " s ", void * " buf ", int " length ", int " flags ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR an_send (3)
function is used to send incoming data to a proxy-capable socket.  The
socket must be in the accepted or connected state.  If the socket is in
blocking mode, the
.BR an_send (3)
function will block until some data is successfully sent into the socket.
In non-blocking mode, if no data can be sent, the return value will be
-1, and errno set to EAGAIN.  To fetch data back from the recipient of
this data, use
.BR an_recv (3).
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3),
and accepted or connected with
.BR an_accept (3),
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3)
or
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3).
.PP
.I buf
is a buffer containing the data to send.
.PP
.I length
is the number of bytes to send from the user supplied buffer.
.PP
.I flags
are flags, reserved for future use.  Currently, there are no flags
guaranteed to be supported across versions of this library.  This parameter
must be zero.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
The return value is the number of bytes sent from buf, or -1 if an error
occurs.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If an error occurs, the return value will be -1.  errno will be set to
provide more information about the cause of the error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR an_accept (3),
.BR an_connect_tohostname (3),
.BR an_connect_tosockaddr (3),
.BR an_new_connection (3),
.BR an_recv (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
