.TH AN_SET_PROXY 3 2005-01-03 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
an_set_proxy - set the location and type of the proxy server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int an_set_proxy(ANCONN " s ", unsigned short " proxy_type ", unsigned short " packet_family ", const char * " proxy_hostname ", unsigned short " proxy_port ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR an_set_proxy (3)
function is used to specify the proxy server to use and other characteristics
associated with the socket.  This function allows fine-grained control of
how a proxy can be configured; a simpler interface is available in the form
of
.BR an_set_proxy_url (3).
This function can only be used to define a connection to a proxy server.  If
you want the socket to connect directly, without a proxy server, use the
.BR an_unset_proxy (3)
function.  The default values are determined by the
.I AN_PROXY
environment variable.
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3).
.PP
.I proxy_type
is the type of proxy to use.  Currently, the library supports the following
values:
.BR AN_SERV_SOCKS4 ,
.BR AN_SERV_SOCKS5
and
.BR AN_SERV_HTTPS .
.BR AN_SERV_SSL
is retained for compatibility and is the same as
.BR AN_SERV_HTTPS .
.PP
.I packet_family
is the packet family to use for connections to the proxy.  This can be
.BR AN_PF_INET
for an IP-based connection, or
.BR AN_PF_INET6
for an IPv6 based connection, if Antinat has been compiled with IPv6 support.
.PP
.I proxy_hostname
is the hostname, in NULL-terminated character format, that should be used to
connect to.  This parameter cannot be NULL.  There is no mechanism to specify
the location of the proxy server in sockaddr structures; all future
applications should use hostnames in preference for increased flexibility.
.PP
.I port
is the port number, in host byte order format, of the proxy server.  Most
SOCKS servers use port 1080.  HTTPS servers often use a variety of ports,
including 8080.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
This call returns
.B AN_ERROR_SUCCESS
to indicate successful completion.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_INVALIDARG
The socket handle is invalid, or the hostname is invalid.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOMEM
There was not enough memory remaining to allocate space to store the
proxy hostname.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOTSUPPORTED
An attempt was made to specify a proxy server type not supported by this
library.  Note that this function cannot be used to establish direct
connections; use the
.BR an_unset_proxy (3)
function instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR an_new_connection (3),
.BR an_set_proxy_url (3),
.BR an_unset_proxy (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
