.TH AN_SET_PROXY_URL 3 2005-01-03 "Antinat" "Antinat Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
an_set_proxy_url - set the location and type of the proxy server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <antinat.h>
.sp
.BI "int an_set_proxy_url(ANCONN " s ", const char * " proxy_url ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.BR an_set_proxy_url (3)
function is used to specify the proxy server to use and the type of that
proxy server.  This is a simplified interface; for full control over the
proxy specification, use the
.BR an_set_proxy (3)
function.
.PP
Proxy URLs are formed as follows: a proxy type, which can be one of:
.BR socks4 ,
.BR socks5 ,
or
.BR https ;
followed by the '://' string (without quotes.)  Following that is the
fully qualified hostname, and optionally, a colon (':') and port number.
If not specified, the default port number is 1080.
The default values used when a socket is created are determined by the
.I AN_PROXY
environment variable.
.PP
.I s
is a socket previously created with
.BR an_new_connection (3).
.PP
.I url
is a NULL-terminated character array specifying the proxy url, described
above.  An example of this url could be
.BR socks4://socks.mycompany.com:10080 .
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
This call returns
.B AN_ERROR_SUCCESS
to indicate successful completion.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_INVALIDARG
The socket handle is invalid, or the url is invalid.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOMEM
There was not enough memory remaining to allocate space to store the
proxy hostname.
.TP
.B AN_ERROR_NOTSUPPORTED
An attempt was made to specify a proxy server type not supported by this
library.  Note that this function cannot be used to establish direct
connections; use the
.BR an_unset_proxy (3)
function instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR an_new_connection (3),
.BR an_set_proxy (3),
.BR an_unset_proxy (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Malcolm Smith <malxau@users.sourceforge.net>
